Contact
hugobowne@gmail.com
www.linkedin.com/in/hugo-bowne-
anderson-045939a5 (LinkedIn)
hugobowne.github.io/ (Personal)
Hugo Bowne-Anderson
Data and AI scientist, consultant. writer, educator, machine learner,
podcaster.
Darlinghurst, New South Wales, Australia
Top Skills
Artificial Intelligence (AI)
Data Science
Developer Relations
Languages
French (Elementary)
Summary
I'm an independent data and AI scientist, consultant, writer, educator
& podcaster. My interests include promoting data & AI literacy/
fluency, helping to spread data skills through organizations and
society and lowering the barrier to entry for data science, analysis,
and machine learning. Previously, I was Head of Developer
Relations at Outerbounds, a company committed to building
infrastructure that provides a solid foundation for machine learning
applications of all shapes and sizes. I am also the host of the
industry podcast Vanishing Gradients. I was previously Head of
Marketing and Data Science Evangelism at Coiled, building solutions
for scalable data science and machine learning in Python. Before
this, I was at DataCamp, a data science training company educating
over 4 million learners worldwide through interactive courses on
the use of Python, R, SQL, Git, Bash and Spreadsheets in a data
science context. While there, I spearheaded the development of
over 25 courses in DataCamp’s Python curriculum, impacting over
250,000 learners worldwide through my own courses. I hosted and
produced the data science podcast DataFramed, in which I used
long-format interviews with working data scientists to delve into what
actually happens in the space and what impact it can and does have.
Experience
Freelance
Independent Data and AI Scientist
July 2024 - Present (1 year 6 months)
Outerbounds
Head of Developer Relations
February 2022 - August 2024 (2 years 7 months)
Coiled
Head of Data Science Evangelism and Marketing
Page 1 of 3
May 2020 - October 2021 (1 year 6 months)
DataCamp
4 years 3 months
Data Scientist
September 2017 - May 2020 (2 years 9 months)
Curriculum Engineer (Python)
March 2016 - May 2020 (4 years 3 months)
DataCamp is a Boston-based startup that provides online, interactive training
in data science. Founded in 2013, the company participated in TechStars NYC
during the spring of 2015, received their first round of VC funding soon after,
and now has over 350,000 registered users worldwide.
At DataCamp, I am responsible for building out the Python curriculum. This
involves everything from mapping out long-term curriculum goals to devising
courses to (the best part!) working with state-of-the-art instructors from
academia, industry and development to build interactive data science courses.
We provide instructors the opportunity to significantly expand their reach,
influence, and impact, while also supplementing their income through our
generous revenue sharing program.
For more reasons why you should consider working with us, see
datacamp.com/create
Yale University
Postdoctoral Associate/Writer
2013 - March 2016 (3 years)
--Developing statistical models for the growth and structure of neurons, in
collaboration with experimentalists (we use the Class IV sensory neuron in
Drosophila larvae as a model system). Daily tasks include constructing master
equations, developing analytical solutions and performing simulations via
numerical integration and Monte Carlo methods, along with devising probability
models, implementing statistical tests and analyzing large amounts of data.
-- Developing quantification methods for gene-expresssion and alternative
splicing across a variety of organisms. To do so, we mine publicly available
RNA-seq datasets (>10^6 data points), develop statistical models, utilize
statistical hypothesis tests and implement both supervised and unsupervised
learning models on big data.
Page 2 of 3
Max Planck Institute for Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics
Postdoctoral Fellow
2011 - 2013 (2 years)
--Predictive mathematical modeling of microtubule dynamics; analyzed in
vitro data to construct a model that accounted for the multistep nature of
catastrophe and the relative insensitivity of lifetime with respect to tubulin
concentration; techniques employed include analytic solutions to master
equations developed from our models, parameter estimation (e.g. maximum
likelihood estimation), implementation of Monte Carlo simulations and
statistical tests.
-- Acted as statistical/mathematical consultant for biologists in the lab: this
included helping experimentalists to form their hypotheses precisely and
mathematically, to ask well-posed scientific questions, and to analyze their
data using statistical hypothesis testing.
Education
UNSW Australia
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), Pure Mathematics · (2006 - 2011)
University of Sydney
Bachelor of Science (B.S.) (First Class Honors), Mathematics, English
Literature · (2001 - 2005)
Page 3 of 3